Status of This Memo

   This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 1900
   through RFCs 1999.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
   provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify
   an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this memo is
   unlimited.

Note

   Many RFCs, but not all, are Proposed Standards, Draft Standards, or
   Standards.  Since the status of these RFCs may change during the
   standards processing, we note here only that they are on the
   standards track.  Please see the latest edition of "Internet Official
   Protocol Standards" for the current state and status of these RFCs.
   In the following, RFCs on the standards track are marked [STANDARDS-
   TRACK].

RFC     Author       Date      Title
---     ------       ----      -----

1999    Elliott      Jan 97   Requests For Comments Summary

This memo.


1998    Chen         Aug 96   An Application of the BGP Community
                              Attribute in Multi-home Routing

This document presents an application of the BGP community attribute [2]
in simplifying the implementation and configuration of routing policies
in the multi-provider Internet.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.








Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 1]
 
RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1997    Chandra      Aug 96   BGP Communities Attribute

This document describes an extension to BGP which may be used to pass
additional information to both neighboring and remote BGP peers.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1996    Vixie        Aug 96   A Mechanism for Prompt Notification of
                              Zone Changes (DNS NOTIFY)

This memo describes the NOTIFY opcode for DNS, by which a master server
advises a set of slave servers that the master's data has been changed
and that a query should be initiated to discover the new data.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1995    Ohta         Aug 96   Incremental Zone Transfer in DNS

This document proposes extensions to the DNS protocols to provide an
incremental zone transfer (IXFR) mechanism.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1994    Simpson      Aug 96   PPP Challenge Handshake Authentication
                              Protocol (CHAP)

This document defines a method for Authentication using PPP, which uses
a random Challenge, with a cryptographically hashed Response which
depends upon the Challenge and a secret key.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1993    Barbir       Aug 96   PPP Gandalf FZA Compression Protocol

This document describes the use of the Gandalf FZA data compression
algorithm [3] for compressing PPP encapsulated packets.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify an
Internet standard.


1992    Castineyra   Aug 96   The Nimrod Routing Architecture

Nimrod is a scalable routing architecture designed to accommodate a
continually expanding and diversifying internetwork.  First suggested by
Noel Chiappa, the Nimrod architecture has undergone revision and
refinement through the efforts of the Nimrod working group of the IETF.
In this document, we present a detailed description of this
architecture.  This memo provides information for the Internet
community.  It does not specify an Internet standard.




Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 2]
 
RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1991    Atkins       Aug 96   PGP Message Exchange Formats

This document describes the format of "PGP files", i.e., messages that
have been encrypted and/or signed with PGP.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1990    Sklower      Aug 96   The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP)

This document proposes a method for splitting, recombining and
sequencing datagrams across multiple logical data links.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1989    Simpson      Aug 96   PPP Link Quality Monitoring

This document defines a protocol for generating Link-Quality-Reports.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1988    McAnally     Aug 96   Conditional Grant of Rights to Specific
                              Hewlett-Packard Patents In Conjunction
                              With the Internet Engineering Task
                              Force's Internet-Standard Network
                              Management Framework

This grant is made to help facilitate inclusion of certain patented
search address technology covering network device mapping in IETF
standards-track Management Information Base (MIB) modules.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1987    Newman       Aug 96   Ipsilon's General Switch Management
                              Protocol Specification Version 1.1

The General Switch Management Protocol (GSMP), is a general purpose
protocol to control an ATM switch. GSMP allows a controller to establish
and release connections across the switch; add and delete leaves on a
point-to-multipoint connection; manage switch ports; request
configuration information; and request statistics.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.







Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 3]
 
RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1986    Polites      Aug 96   Experiments with a Simple File Transfer
                              Protocol for Radio Links using Enhanced
                              Trivial File Transfer Protocol (ETFTP)

This document is a description of the Enhanced Trivial File Transfer
Protocol (ETFTP). This protocol is an experimental implementation of the
NETwork BLock Transfer Protocol (NETBLT), RFC 998 [1], as a file
transfer application program.  This memo defines an Experimental
Protocol for the Internet community.


1985    De Winter    Aug 96   SMTP Service Extension
                              for Remote Message Queue Starting

This memo defines an extension to the SMTP service whereby an SMTP
client and server may interact to give the server an opportunity to
start the processing of its queues for messages to go to a given host.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1984    I.A.B.       Aug 96   IAB and IESG Statement on Cryptographic
                              Technology and the Internet

The Internet Architecture Board (IAB) and the Internet Engineering
Steering Group (IESG), the bodies which oversee architecture and
standards for the Internet, are concerned by the need for increased
protection of international commercial transactions on the Internet, and
by the need to offer all Internet users an adequate degree of privacy.
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1983    Malkin       Aug 96   Internet Users' Glossary

There are many networking glossaries in existence.  This glossary
concentrates on terms which are specific to the Internet.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1982    Elz          Aug 96   Serial Number Arithmetic

The DNS has long relied upon serial number arithmetic, a concept which
has never really been defined, certainly not in an IETF document, though
which has been widely understood.  This memo supplies the missing
definition.  It is intended to update RFC1034 and RFC1035.  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]




Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 4]
 
RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1981    McCann       Aug 96   Path MTU Discovery for IP version 6

This document describes Path MTU Discovery for IP version 6.  It is
largely derived from RFC 1191, which describes Path MTU Discovery for IP
version 4.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1980    Seidman      Aug 96   A Proposed Extension to HTML :
                              Client-Side Image Maps

This document specifies an extension to the HTML language, referred to
as "Client-Side Image Maps," which resolves some limitations.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1979    Woods        Aug 96   PPP Deflate Protocol

This document describes the use of the PPP Deflate compression protocol
for compressing PPP encapsulated packets.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1978    Rand         Aug 96   PPP Predictor Compression Protocol

This document describes the use of the Predictor data compression
algorithm for compressing PPP encapsulated packets.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1977    Schryver     Aug 96   PPP BSD Compression Protocol

This document describes the use of the Unix Compress compression
protocol for compressing PPP encapsulated packets.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.













Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 5]
 
RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1976    Schneider    Aug 96   PPP for Data Compression in Data
                              Circuit-Terminating Equipment (DCE)

This document defines a specific set of parameters for these protocols
and an LCP extension to define a standard way of using PPP for data
compression of serial data in Data Circuit-Terminating Equipment (DCE).
This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1975    Schremp      Aug 96   PPP Magnalink Variable Resource
                              Compression

The Magnalink Variable Resource Compression Algorithm (MVRCA) allows a
wide range of interoperable compression implementations whose
performance characteristics are a function of available CPU and memory
resources.  This memo provides information for the Internet community.
This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1974    Friend       Aug 96   PPP Stac LZS Compression Protocol

This document describes the use of the Stac LZS data compression
algorithm, with single or multiple compression histories, for
compressing PPP encapsulated packets.  This memo provides information
for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet
standard of any kind.


1973    Simpson      Jun 96   PPP in Frame Relay

This document describes the use of Frame Relay for framing PPP
encapsulated packets.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1972    Crawford     Aug 96   A Method for the Transmission of IPv6
                              Packets over Ethernet Networks

This memo specifies the frame format for transmission of IPv6 [IPV6]
packets and the method of forming IPv6 link-local addresses on Ethernet
networks.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1971    Thomson      Aug 96   IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration

This document specifies the steps a host takes in deciding how to
autoconfigure its interfaces in IP version 6.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]




Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 6]
 
RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1970    Narten       Aug 96   Neighbor Discovery for IP Version 6
                              (IPv6)

This document specifies the Neighbor Discovery protocol for IP Version
6.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1969    Sklower      Jun 96   The PPP DES Encryption Protocol (DESE)

This document provides specific details for the use of the DES standard
[5, 6] for encrypting PPP encapsulated packets.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1968    Meyer        Jun 96   The PPP Encryption Control Protocol
                              (ECP)

This document defines a method for negotiating data encryption over PPP
links.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1967    Schneider    Aug 96   PPP LZS-DCP Compression Protocol
                              (LZS-DCP)

This document describes the use of the Stac LZS data compression
algorithm for compressing PPP encapsulated packets, using a DCP header
[6].  This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This
memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1966    Bates        Jun 96   BGP Route Reflection
                              An alternative to full mesh IBGP

This document describes the use and design of a method known as "Route
Reflection" to alleviate the the need for "full mesh" IBGP.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.


1965    Traina       Jun 96   Autonomous System Confederations for BGP

This document describes an extension to BGP which may be used to create
a confederation of autonomous systems which is represented as one single
autonomous system to BGP peers external to the confederation.  This memo
defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet community.






Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 7]
 
RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1964    Linn         Jun 96   The Kerberos Version 5 GSS-API Mechanism

This specification defines protocols, procedures, and conventions to be
employed by peers implementing the Generic Security Service Application
Program Interface (as specified in RFCs 1508 and 1509) when using
Kerberos Version 5 technology (as specified in RFC 1510).  [STANDARDS-
TRACK]


1963    Schneider    Aug 96   PPP Serial Data Transport Protocol
                              (SDTP)

This document describes a new Network level protocol (from the PPP point
of view), PPP Serial Data Transport Protocol, that provides
encapsulation and an associated control protocol for transporting serial
data streams over a PPP link.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1962    Rand         Jun 96   The PPP Compression Control Protocol
                              (CCP)

This document defines a method for negotiating data compression over PPP
links.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1961    McMahon      Jun 96   GSS-API Authentication Method for SOCKS
                              Version 5

This document provides the specification for the SOCKS V5 GSS-API
authentication protocol, and defines a GSS-API-based encapsulation for
provision of integrity, authentication and optional confidentiality.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]


1960    Howes        Jun 96   A String Representation of LDAP
                              Search Filters

The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) [1] defines a network
representation of a search filter transmitted to an LDAP server.  Some
applications may find it useful to have a common way of representing
these search filters in a human-readable form.  This document defines a
human-readable string format for representing LDAP search filters.
[STANDARDS-TRACK]






Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 8]
 
RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1959    Howes        Jun 96   An LDAP URL Format

This document describes a format for an LDAP Uniform Resource Locator
which will allow Internet clients to have direct access to the LDAP
protocol.  [STANDARDS-TRACK]


1958    Carpenter    Jun 96   Architectural Principles of the Internet

The Internet and its architecture have grown in evolutionary fashion
from modest beginnings, rather than from a Grand Plan. While this
process of evolution is one of the main reasons for the technology's
success, it nevertheless seems useful to record a snapshot of the
current principles of the Internet architecture. This is intended for
general guidance and general interest, and is in no way intended to be a
formal or invariant reference model.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


1957    Nelson       Jun 96   Some Observations on Implementations
                              of the Post Office Protocol (POP3)

This memo provides information for the Internet community. This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1956    Engebretson  Jun 96   Registration in the MIL Domain

This RFC describes the policy for the registration of second level
domains under the ".MIL" domain.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of
any kind.


1955    Hinden       Jun 96   New Scheme for Internet Routing and
                              Addressing (ENCAPS) for IPNG

This paper proposes a new scheme which I believe is a good medium term
solution to the routing and address problems of the internet.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.









Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 9]
 
RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1954    Newman       May 96   Transmission of Flow Labelled IPv4 on
                              ATM Data Links Ipsilon Version 1.0

This document specifies the manner for transmitting IPv4 datagrams over
an ATM data link, both in a default manner and in the presence of flow
labelling via Ipsilon Flow Management Protocol [IFMP].  This document
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1953    Newman       May 96   Ipsilon Flow Management Protocol
                              Specification for IPv4 Version 1.0

The Ipsilon Flow Management Protocol (IFMP), is a protocol for allowing
a node to instruct an adjacent node to attach a layer 2 label to a
specified IP flow.  This document provides information for the Internet
community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1952    Deutsch      May 96   GZIP file format specification
                              version 4.3

This specification defines a lossless compressed data format that is
compatible with the widely used GZIP utility.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1951    Deutsch      May 96   DEFLATE Compressed Data Format
                              Specification version 1.3

This specification defines a lossless compressed data format that
compresses data using a combination of the LZ77 algorithm and Huffman
coding, with efficiency comparable to the best currently available
general-purpose compression methods.  This memo provides information for
the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet standard
of any kind.


1950    Deutsch      May 96   ZLIB Compressed Data Format
                              Specification version 3.3

This specification defines a lossless compressed data format.  This memo
provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does not
specify an Internet standard of any kind.






Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 10]
 
RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997


1949    Ballarde     May 96   Scalable Multicast Key Distribution

This memo provides a scalable solution to the multicast key distribution
problem.  This memo defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
community.


1948    Bellovin     May 96   Defending Against Sequence Number
                              Attacks

IP spoofing attacks based on sequence number spoofing have become a
serious threat on the Internet (CERT Advisory CA-95:01).  While
ubiquitous crypgraphic authentication is the right answer, we propose a
simple modification to TCP implementations that should be a very
substantial block to the current wave of attacks.  This memo provides
information for the Internet community.  This memo does not specify an
Internet standard of any kind.


1947    Spinellis    May 96   Greek Character Encoding for Electronic
                              Mail Messages

This document describes a standard encoding for electronic mail [RFC822]
containing Greek text and provides implementation guide-lines.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1946    Jackowski    May 96   Native ATM Support for ST2+

This memo describes a working implementation which enables applications
to directly invoke ATM services in the following environments: ATM to
internet, internet to ATM, and internet to internet across ATM.  This
memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo does
not specify an Internet standard of any kind.


1945    Berners-Lee  May 96   Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.0

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol
with the lightness and speed necessary for distributed, collaborative,
hypermedia information systems.  This memo provides information for the
Internet community.  This memo does not specify an Internet


1.  The Standardization Process

   The Internet Architecture Board maintains this list of documents that
   define standards for the Internet protocol suite.  See RFC-1601 for
   the charter of the IAB and RFC-1160 for an explanation of the role
   and organization of the IAB and its subsidiary groups, the Internet
   Engineering Task Force (IETF) and the Internet Research Task Force
   (IRTF).  Each of these groups has a steering group called the IESG
   and IRSG, respectively.  The IETF develops these standards with the
   goal of co-ordinating the evolution of the Internet protocols; this
   co-ordination has become quite important as the Internet protocols
   are increasingly in general commercial use.  The definitive
   description of the Internet standards process is found in RFC-1602.

   The majority of Internet protocol development and standardization
   activity takes place in the working groups of the IETF.

   Protocols which are to become standards in the Internet go through a
   series of states or maturity levels (proposed standard, draft
   standard, and standard) involving increasing amounts of scrutiny and
   testing.  When a protocol completes this process it is assigned a STD
   number (see RFC-1311).  At each step, the Internet Engineering
   Steering Group (IESG) of the IETF must make a recommendation for
   advancement of the protocol.

   To allow time for the Internet community to consider and react to
   standardization proposals, a minimum delay of 6 months before a
   proposed standard can be advanced to a draft standard and 4 months
   before a draft standard can be promoted to standard.

   It is general practice that no proposed standard can be promoted to
   draft standard without at least two independent implementations (and
   the recommendation of the IESG).  Promotion from draft standard to
   standard generally requires operational experience and demonstrated
   interoperability of two or more implementations (and the
   recommendation of the IESG).

   In cases where there is uncertainty as to the proper decision
   concerning a protocol a special review committee may be appointed
   consisting of experts from the IETF, IRTF and the IAB with the
   purpose of recommending an explicit action.

   Advancement of a protocol to proposed standard is an important step
   since it marks a protocol as a candidate for eventual standardization
   (it puts the protocol "on the standards track").  Advancement to
   draft standard is a major step which warns the community that, unless
   major objections are raised or flaws are discovered, the protocol is
   likely to be advanced to standard in six months.



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 3]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


   Some protocols have been superseded by better ones or are otherwise
   unused.  Such protocols are still documented in this memorandum with
   the designation "historic".

   Because it is useful to document the results of early protocol
   research and development work, some of the RFCs document protocols
   which are still in an experimental condition.  The protocols are
   designated "experimental" in this memorandum.  They appear in this
   report as a convenience to the community and not as evidence of their
   standardization.

   Other protocols, such as those developed by other standards
   organizations, or by particular vendors, may be of interest or may be
   recommended for use in the Internet.  The specifications of such
   protocols may be published as RFCs for the convenience of the
   Internet community.  These protocols are labeled "informational" in
   this memorandum.

   In addition to the working groups of the IETF, protocol development
   and experimentation may take place as a result of the work of the
   research groups of the Internet Research Task Force, or the work of
   other individuals interested in Internet protocol development.  The
   the documentation of such experimental work in the RFC series is
   encouraged, but none of this work is considered to be on the track
   for standardization until the IESG has made a recommendation to
   advance the protocol to the proposed standard state.

   A few protocols have achieved widespread implementation without the
   approval of the IESG.  For example, some vendor protocols have become
   very important to the Internet community even though they have not
   been recommended by the IESG.  However, the IAB strongly recommends
   that the standards process be used in the evolution of the protocol
   suite to maximize interoperability (and to prevent incompatible
   protocol requirements from arising).  The use of the terms
   "standard", "draft standard", and "proposed standard" are reserved in
   any RFC or other publication of Internet protocols to only those
   protocols which the IESG has approved.

   In addition to a state (like "Proposed Standard"), a protocol is also
   assigned a status, or requirement level, in this document.  The
   possible requirement levels ("Required", "Recommended", "Elective",
   "Limited Use", and "Not Recommended") are defined in Section 4.2.
   When a protocol is on the standards track, that is in the proposed
   standard, draft standard, or standard state (see Section 5), the
   status shown in Section 6 is the current status.

   Few protocols are required to be implemented in all systems; this is
   because there is such a variety of possible systems, for example,



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 4]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


   gateways, routers, terminal servers, workstations, and multi-user
   hosts.  The requirement level shown in this document is only a one
   word label, which may not be sufficient to characterize the
   implementation requirements for a protocol in all situations.  For
   some protocols, this document contains an additional status paragraph
   (an applicability statement).  In addition, more detailed status
   information may be contained in separate requirements documents (see
   Section 3).

2.  The Request for Comments Documents

   The documents called Request for Comments (or RFCs) are the working
   notes of the "Network Working Group", that is the Internet research
   and development community.  A document in this series may be on
   essentially any topic related to computer communication, and may be
   anything from a meeting report to the specification of a standard.

   Notice:

      All standards are published as RFCs, but not all RFCs specify
      standards.

   Anyone can submit a document for publication as an RFC.  Submissions
   must be made via electronic mail to the RFC Editor (see the contact
   information at the end of this memo, and see RFC 1543).

   While RFCs are not refereed publications, they do receive technical
   review from the task forces, individual technical experts, or the RFC
   Editor, as appropriate.

   The RFC series comprises a wide range of documents, ranging from
   informational documents of general interests to specifications of
   standard Internet protocols.  In cases where submission is intended
   to document a proposed standard, draft standard, or standard
   protocol, the RFC Editor will publish the document only with the
   approval of the IESG.  For documents describing experimental work,
   the RFC Editor will notify the IESG before publication, allowing for
   the possibility of review by the relevant IETF working group or IRTF
   research group and provide those comments to the author.  See Section
   5.1 for more detail.

   Once a document is assigned an RFC number and published, that RFC is
   never revised or re-issued with the same number.  There is never a
   question of having the most recent version of a particular RFC.
   However, a protocol (such as File Transfer Protocol (FTP)) may be
   improved and re-documented many times in several different RFCs.  It
   is important to verify that you have the most recent RFC on a
   particular protocol.  This "Internet Official Protocol Standards"



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 5]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


   memo is the reference for determining the correct RFC for the current
   specification of each protocol.

   The RFCs are available from the INTERNIC, and a number of other
   sites.  For more information about obtaining RFCs, see Sections 7.4
   and 7.5.

3.  Other Reference Documents

   There are three other reference documents of interest in checking the
   current status of protocol specifications and standardization.  These
   are the Assigned Numbers, the Gateway Requirements, and the Host
   Requirements.  Note that these documents are revised and updated at
   different times; in case of differences between these documents, the
   most recent must prevail.

   Also, one should be aware of the MIL-STD publications on IP, TCP,
   Telnet, FTP, and SMTP.  These are described in Section 3.4.

3.1.  Assigned Numbers

   The "Assigned Numbers" document lists the assigned values of the
   parameters used in the various protocols.  For example, IP protocol
   codes, TCP port numbers, Telnet Option Codes, ARP hardware types, and
   Terminal Type names.  Assigned Numbers was most recently issued as
   RFC-1700.

3.2.  Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers

   This document reviews the specifications that apply to gateways and
   supplies guidance and clarification for any ambiguities.
   Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers is RFC-1812.

3.3.  Host Requirements

   This pair of documents reviews and updates the specifications that
   apply to hosts, and it supplies guidance and clarification for any
   ambiguities.  Host Requirements was issued as RFC-1122 and RFC-1123.

3.4.  The MIL-STD Documents

   The DoD MIL-STD Internet specifications are out of date and have been
   discontinued.  The DoD's Joint Technical Architecture (JTA) lists the
   current set of IETF STDs and RFCs that the DoD intends to use in all
   new and upgraded Command, Control, Communications, Computers, and
   Intelligence (C4I) acquisitions.  A copy of the JTA can be obtained
   from http://www-jta.itsi.disa.mil.




Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 6]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


4.  Explanation of Terms

   There are two independent categorization of protocols.  The first is
   the "maturity level" or STATE of standardization, one of "standard",
   "draft standard", "proposed standard", "experimental",
   "informational" or "historic".  The second is the "requirement level"
   or STATUS of this protocol, one of "required", "recommended",
   "elective", "limited use", or "not recommended".

   The status or requirement level is difficult to portray in a one word
   label.  These status labels should be considered only as an
   indication, and a further description, or applicability statement,
   should be consulted.

   When a protocol is advanced to proposed standard or draft standard,
   it is labeled with a current status.

   At any given time a protocol occupies a cell of the following matrix.
   Protocols are likely to be in cells in about the following
   proportions (indicated by the relative number of Xs).  A new protocol
   is most likely to start in the (proposed standard, elective) cell, or
   the (experimental, limited use) cell.

                             S T A T U S
                     Req   Rec   Ele   Lim   Not
                   +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
           Std     |  X  | XXX | XXX |     |     |
       S           +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
           Draft   |  X  |  X  | XXX |     |     |
       T           +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
           Prop    |     |  X  | XXX |     |     |
       A           +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
           Info    |     |     |     |     |     |
       T           +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
           Expr    |     |     |     | XXX |     |
       E           +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
           Hist    |     |     |     |     | XXX |
                   +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+

   What is a "system"?

      Some protocols are particular to hosts and some to gateways; a few
      protocols are used in both.  The definitions of the terms below
      will refer to a "system" which is either a host or a gateway (or
      both).  It should be clear from the context of the particular
      protocol which types of systems are intended.





Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 7]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


4.1.  Definitions of Protocol State

   Every protocol listed in this document is assigned to a "maturity
   level" or STATE of standardization: "standard", "draft standard",
   "proposed standard", "experimental", or "historic".

   4.1.1.  Standard Protocol

      The IESG has established this as an official standard protocol for
      the Internet.  These protocols are assigned STD numbers (see RFC-
      1311).  These are separated into two groups: (1) IP protocol and
      above, protocols that apply to the whole Internet; and (2)
      network-specific protocols, generally specifications of how to do
      IP on particular types of networks.

   4.1.2.  Draft Standard Protocol

      The IESG is actively considering this protocol as a possible
      Standard Protocol.  Substantial and widespread testing and comment
      are desired.  Comments and test results should be submitted to the
      IESG.  There is a possibility that changes will be made in a Draft
      Standard Protocol before it becomes a Standard Protocol.

   4.1.3.  Proposed Standard Protocol

      These are protocol proposals that may be considered by the IESG
      for standardization in the future.  Implementation and testing by
      several groups is desirable.  Revision of the protocol
      specification is likely.

   4.1.4.  Experimental Protocol

      A system should not implement an experimental protocol unless it
      is participating in the experiment and has coordinated its use of
      the protocol with the developer of the protocol.

      Typically, experimental protocols are those that are developed as
      part of an ongoing research project not related to an operational
      service offering.  While they may be proposed as a service
      protocol at a later stage, and thus become proposed standard,
      draft standard, and then standard protocols, the designation of a
      protocol as experimental may sometimes be meant to suggest that
      the protocol, although perhaps mature, is not intended for
      operational use.







Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 8]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


   4.1.5.  Informational Protocol

      Protocols developed by other standard organizations, or vendors,
      or that are for other reasons outside the purview of the IESG, may
      be published as RFCs for the convenience of the Internet community
      as informational protocols.

   4.1.6.  Historic Protocol

      These are protocols that are unlikely to ever become standards in
      the Internet either because they have been superseded by later
      developments or due to lack of interest.

4.2.  Definitions of Protocol Status

      This document lists a "requirement level" or STATUS for each
      protocol.  The status is one of "required", "recommended",
      "elective", "limited use", or "not recommended".

   4.2.1.  Required Protocol

      A system must implement the required protocols.

   4.2.2.  Recommended Protocol

      A system should implement the recommended protocols.

   4.2.3.  Elective Protocol

      A system may or may not implement an elective protocol. The
      general notion is that if you are going to do something like this,
      you must do exactly this.  There may be several elective protocols
      in a general area, for example, there are several electronic mail
      protocols, and several routing protocols.

   4.2.4.  Limited Use Protocol

      These protocols are for use in limited circumstances.  This may be
      because of their experimental state, specialized nature, limited
      functionality, or historic state.

   4.2.5.  Not Recommended Protocol

      These protocols are not recommended for general use.  This may be
      because of their limited functionality, specialized nature, or
      experimental or historic state.





Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 9]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


5.  The Standards Track

   This section discusses in more detail the procedures used by the RFC
   Editor and the IESG in making decisions about the labeling and
   publishing of protocols as standards.

5.1.  The RFC Processing Decision Table

   Here is the current decision table for processing submissions by the
   RFC Editor.  The processing depends on who submitted it, and the
   status they want it to have.

      +==========================================================+
      |**************|               S O U R C E                 |
      +==========================================================+
      | Desired      |    IAB   |   IESG   |   IRSG   |  Other   |
      | Status       |          |          |          |          |
      +==========================================================+
      |              |          |          |          |          |
      | Standard     |  Bogus   |  Publish |  Bogus   |  Bogus   |
      | or           |   (2)    |   (1)    |   (2)    |   (2)    |
      | Draft        |          |          |          |          |
      | Standard     |          |          |          |          |
      +--------------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
      |              |          |          |          |          |
      |              |  Refer   |  Publish |  Refer   |  Refer   |
      | Proposed     |   (3)    |   (1)    |   (3)    |   (3)    |
      | Standard     |          |          |          |          |
      |              |          |          |          |          |
      +--------------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
      |              |          |          |          |          |
      |              |  Notify  |  Publish |  Notify  |  Notify  |
      | Experimental |   (4)    |   (1)    |   (4)    |   (4)    |
      | Protocol     |          |          |          |          |
      |              |          |          |          |          |
      +--------------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
      |              |          |          |          |          |
      | Information  |  Publish |  Publish |Discretion|Discretion|
      | or Opinion   |   (1)    |   (1)    |   (5)    |   (5)    |
      | Paper        |          |          |          |          |
      |              |          |          |          |          |
      +==========================================================+

      (1) Publish.

      (2) Bogus.  Inform the source of the rules.  RFCs specifying
          Standard, or Draft Standard must come from the IESG, only.




Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 10]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      (3) Refer to an Area Director for review by a WG.  Expect to see
          the document again only after approval by the IESG.

      (4) Notify both the IESG and IRSG.  If no concerns are raised in
          two weeks then do Discretion (5), else RFC Editor to resolve
          the concerns or do Refer (3).

      (5) RFC Editor's discretion.  The RFC Editor decides if a review
          is needed and if so by whom.  RFC Editor decides to publish or
          not.

   Of course, in all cases the RFC Editor can request or make minor
   changes for style, format, and presentation purposes.

   The IESG has designated the IESG Secretary as its agent for
   forwarding documents with IESG approval and for registering concerns
   in response to notifications (4) to the RFC Editor.  Documents from
   Area Directors or Working Group Chairs may be considered in the same
   way as documents from "other".

5.2.  The Standards Track Diagram

   There is a part of the STATUS and STATE categorization that is called
   the standards track.  Actually, only the changes of state are
   significant to the progression along the standards track, though the
   status assignments may change as well.

   The states illustrated by single line boxes are temporary states,
   those illustrated by double line boxes are long term states.  A
   protocol will normally be expected to remain in a temporary state for
   several months (minimum six months for proposed standard, minimum
   four months for draft standard).  A protocol may be in a long term
   state for many years.

   A protocol may enter the standards track only on the recommendation
   of the IESG; and may move from one state to another along the track
   only on the recommendation of the IESG.  That is, it takes action by
   the IESG to either start a protocol on the track or to move it along.

   Generally, as the protocol enters the standards track a decision is
   made as to the eventual STATUS, requirement level or applicability
   (elective, recommended, or required) the protocol will have, although
   a somewhat less stringent current status may be assigned, and it then
   is placed in the the proposed standard STATE with that status.  So
   the initial placement of a protocol is into state 1.  At any time the
   STATUS decision may be revisited.





Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 11]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


         |
         +<----------------------------------------------+
         |                                               ^
         V    0                                          |    4
   +-----------+                                   +===========+
   |   enter   |-->----------------+-------------->|experiment |
   +-----------+                   |               +=====+=====+
                                   |                     |
                                   V    1                |
                             +-----------+               V
                             | proposed  |-------------->+
                        +--->+-----+-----+               |
                        |          |                     |
                        |          V    2                |
                        +<---+-----+-----+               V
                             | draft std |-------------->+
                        +--->+-----+-----+               |
                        |          |                     |
                        |          V    3                |
                        +<---+=====+=====+               V
                             | standard  |-------------->+
                             +=====+=====+               |
                                                         |
                                                         V    5
                                                   +=====+=====+
                                                   | historic  |
                                                   +===========+

   The transition from proposed standard (1) to draft standard (2) can
   only be by action of the IESG and only after the protocol has been
   proposed standard (1) for at least six months.

   The transition from draft standard (2) to standard (3) can only be by
   action of the IESG and only after the protocol has been draft
   standard (2) for at least four months.

   Occasionally, the decision may be that the protocol is not ready for
   standardization and will be assigned to the experimental state (4).
   This is off the standards track, and the protocol may be resubmitted
   to enter the standards track after further work.  There are other
   paths into the experimental and historic states that do not involve
   IESG action.

   Sometimes one protocol is replaced by another and thus becomes
   historic, or it may happen that a protocol on the standards track is
   in a sense overtaken by another protocol (or other events) and
   becomes historic (state 5).




Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 12]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


6.  The Protocols

   Subsection 6.1 lists recent RFCs and other changes.  Subsections 6.2
   - 6.10 list the standards in groups by protocol state.

6.1.  Recent Changes

6.1.1.  New RFCs:

      2109 - HTTP State Management Mechanism

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2108 - Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE 802.3 Repeater
             Devices using SMIv2

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2107 - Ascend Tunnel Management Protocol - ATMP

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2106 - Data Link Switching Remote Access Protocol

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2105 - Cisco Systems' Tag Switching Architecture Overview

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2104 - HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message Authentication

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2103 - Mobility Support for Nimrod :  Challenges and Solution
             Approaches

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2102 - Multicast Support for Nimrod :  Requirements and Solution
             Approaches

             This is an information document and does not specify any



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 13]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


             level of standard.

      2101 - IPv4 Address Behaviour Today

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2100 - not yet issued.

      2099 - not yet issued.

      2098 - Toshiba's Router Architecture Extensions for ATM : Overview

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2097 - The PPP NetBIOS Frames Control Protocol (NBFCP)

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2096 - IP Forwarding Table MIB

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2095 - IMAP/POP AUTHorize Extension for Simple Challenge/Response

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2094 - not yet issued.

      2093 - not yet issued.

      2092 - Protocol Analysis for Triggered RIP

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2091 - Triggered Extensions to RIP to Support Demand Circuits

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2090 - TFTP Multicast Option

             An Experimental protocol.

      2089 - V2ToV1 Mapping SNMPv2 onto SNMPv1 within a bi-lingual SNMP
             agent




Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 14]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2088 - IMAP4 non-synchronizing literals

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2087 - IMAP4 QUOTA extension

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2086 - IMAP4 ACL extension

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2085 - HMAC-MD5 IP Authentication with Replay Prevention

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2084 - Considerations for Web Transaction Security

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2083 - PNG (Portable Network Graphics) Specification Version 1.0

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2082 - RIP-2 MD5 Authentication

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2081 - RIPng Protocol Applicability Statement

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2080 - RIPng for IPv6

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2079 - Definition of an X.500 Attribute Type and an Object Class
             to Hold Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs)

             A Proposed Standard protocol.





Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 15]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      2078 - Generic Security Service Application Program Interface,
             Version 2

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2077 - The Model Primary Content Type for Multipurpose Internet
             Mail Extension

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2076 - not yet issued.

      2075 - IP Echo Host Service

             An Experimental protocol.

      2074 - Remote Network Monitoring MIB Protocol Identifiers

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2073 - An IPv6 Provider-Based Unicast Address Format

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2072 - Router Renumbering Guide

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2071 - Network Renumbering Overview: Why would I want it and what
             is it anyway?

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2070 - Internationalization of the Hypertext Markup Language

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2069 - An Extension to HTTP : Digest Access Authentication

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2068 - Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1

             A Proposed Standard protocol.





Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 16]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      2067 - IP over HIPPI

             A Draft Standard protocol.

      2066 - TELNET CHARSET Option

             An Experimental protocol.

      2065 - Domain Name System Security Extensions

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2064 - Traffic Flow Measurement:  Meter MIB

             An Experimental protocol.

      2063 - Traffic Flow Measurement:  Architecture

             An Experimental protocol.

      2062 - Internet Message Access Protocol - Obsolete Syntax

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2061 - IMAP4 Compatibility with IMAP2BIS

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2060 - Internet Message Access Protocol - Version 4rev1

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2059 - RADIUS Accounting

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2058 - Remote Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS)

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2057 - Source Directed Access Control on the Internet

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.




Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 17]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      2056 - Uniform Resource Locators for Z39.50

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2055 - WebNFS Server Specification

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2054 - WebNFS Client Specification

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2053 - The AM (Armenia) Domain

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2052 - A DNS RR for specifying the location of services (DNS SRV)

             An Experimental protocol.

      2051 - Definitions of Managed Objects for APPC using SMIv2

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2050 - Internet Registry IP Allocation Guidelines

             This is a Best Current Practices document and does not
             specify any level of standard.

      2049 - Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part Five:
             Conformance Criteria and Examples

             A Draft Standard protocol.

      2048 - Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part Four:
             Registration Procedures

             This is a Best Current Practices document and does not
             specify any level of standard.

      2047 - MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) Part Three:
             Message Header Extensions for Non-ASCII Text

             A Draft Standard protocol.




Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 18]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      2046 - Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part Two:
             Media Types

             A Draft Standard protocol.

      2045 - Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part One:
             Format of Internet Message Bodies

             A Draft Standard protocol.

      2044 - UTF-8, a transformation format of Unicode and ISO 10646

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2043 - The PPP SNA Control Protocol (SNACP)

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2042 - Registering New BGP Attribute Types

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2041 - Mobile Network Tracing

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2040 - The RC5, RC5-CBC, RC5-CBC-Pad, and RC5-CTS Algorithms

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2039 - Applicablity of Standards Track MIBs to Management of World
             Wide Web Servers

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2038 - RTP Payload Format for MPEG1/MPEG2 Video

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2037 - Entity MIB using SMIv2

             A Proposed Standard protocol.




Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 19]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      2036 - Observations on the use of Components of the Class A
             Address Space within the Internet

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2035 - RTP Payload Format for JPEG-compressed Video

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2034 - SMTP Service Extension for Returning Enhanced Error Codes

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2033 - Local Mail Transfer Protocol

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2032 - RTP Payload Format for H.261 Video Streams

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2031 - IETF-ISOC relationship

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2030 - Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP) Version 4 for IPv4,
             IPv6 and OSI

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2029 - RTP Payload Format of Sun's CellB Video Encoding

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2028 - The Organizations Involved in the IETF Standards Process

             This is a Best Current Practices document and does not
             specify any level of standard.

      2027 - IAB and IESG Selection, Confirmation, and Recall Process:
             Operation of the Nominating and Recall Committees

             This is a Best Current Practices document and does not
             specify any level of standard.



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 20]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      2026 - The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3

             This is a Best Current Practices document and does not
             specify any level of standard.

      2025 - The Simple Public-Key GSS-API Mechanism (SPKM)

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2024 - Definitions of Managed Objects for Data Link Switching
             using SMIv2

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2023 - IP Version 6 over PPP

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2022 - Support for Multicast over UNI 3.0/3.1 based ATM Networks

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2021 - Remote Network Monitoring Management Information Base
             Version 2 using SMIv2

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2020 - IEEE 802.12 Interface MIB

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2019 - Transmission of IPv6 Packets Over FDDI

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2018 - TCP Selective Acknowledgement Options

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2017 - Definition of the URL MIME External-Body Access-Type

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2016 - Uniform Resource Agents (URAs)

             An Experimental protocol.





Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 21]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      2015 - MIME Security with Pretty Good Privacy (PGP)

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2014 - IRTF Research Group Guidelines and Procedures

             This is a Best Current Practices document and does not
             specify any level of standard.

      2013 - SNMPv2 Management Information Base for the User Datagram
             Protocol using SMIv2

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2012 - SNMPv2 Management Information Base for the Transmission
             Control Protocol using SMIv2

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2011 - SNMPv2 Management Information Base for the Internet
             Protocol using SMIv2

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2010 - Operational Criteria for Root Name Servers

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2009 - GPS-Based Addressing and Routing

             An Experimental protocol.

      2008 - Implications of Various Address Allocation Policies for
             Internet Routing

             This is a Best Current Practices document and does not
             specify any level of standard.

      2007 - Catalogue of Network Training Materials

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      2006 - The Definitions of Managed Objects for IP Mobility Support
             using SMIv2

             A Proposed Standard protocol.



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 22]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      2005 - Applicability Statement for IP Mobility Support

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2004 - Minimal Encapsulation within IP

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2003 - IP Encapsulation within IP

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2002 - IP Mobility Support

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2001 - TCP Slow Start, Congestion Avoidance, Fast Retransmit, and
             Fast Recovery Algorithms

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      2000 - Internet Official Protocol Standards

             This memo.

      1999 - Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1900-1999

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1998 - An Application of the BGP Community Attribute in Multi-home
             Routing

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1997 - BGP Communities Attribute

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1996 - A Mechanism for Prompt Notification of Zone Changes (DNS
             NOTIFY)

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1995 - Incremental Zone Transfer in DNS

             A Proposed Standard protocol.



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 23]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      1994 - PPP Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP)

             A Draft Standard protocol.

      1993 - PPP Gandalf FZA Compression Protocol

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1992 - The Nimrod Routing Architecture

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1991 - PGP Message Exchange Formats

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1990 - The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP)

             A Draft Standard protocol.

      1989 - PPP Link Quality Monitoring

             A Draft Standard protocol.

      1988 - Conditional Grant of Rights to Specific Hewlett-Packard
             Patents In Conjunction With the Internet Engineering Task
             Force's Internet-Standard Network Management Framework

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1987 - Ipsilon's General Switch Management Protocol Specification
             Version 1.1

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1986 - Experiments with a Simple File Transfer Protocol for Radio
             Links using Enhanced Trivial File Transfer Protocol (ETFTP)

             An Experimental protocol.

      1985 - SMTP Service Extension for Remote Message Queue Starting

             A Proposed Standard protocol.



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 24]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      1984 - IAB and IESG Statement on Cryptographic Technology and the
             Internet

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1983 - Internet Users' Glossary

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1982 - Serial Number Arithmetic

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1981 - Path MTU Discovery for IP version 6

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1980 - A Proposed Extension to HTML : Client-Side Image Maps

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1979 - PPP Deflate Protocol

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1978 - PPP Predictor Compression Protocol

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1977 - PPP BSD Compression Protocol

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1976 - PPP for Data Compression in Data Circuit-Terminating
             Equipment (DCE)

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1975 - PPP Magnalink Variable Resource Compression

             This is an information document and does not specify any



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 25]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


             level of standard.

      1974 - PPP Stac LZS Compression Protocol

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1973 - PPP in Frame Relay

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1972 - A Method for the Transmission of IPv6 Packets over Ethernet
             Networks

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1971 - IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1970 - Neighbor Discovery for IP Version 6 (IPv6)

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1969 - The PPP DES Encryption Protocol (DESE)

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1968 - The PPP Encryption Control Protocol (ECP)

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1967 - PPP LZS-DCP Compression Protocol (LZS-DCP)

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1966 - BGP Route Reflection An alternative to full mesh IBGP

             An Experimental protocol.

      1965 - Autonomous System Confederations for BGP

             An Experimental protocol.






Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 26]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      1964 - The Kerberos Version 5 GSS-API Mechanism

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1963 - PPP Serial Data Transport Protocol (SDTP)

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1962 - The PPP Compression Control Protocol (CCP)

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1961 - GSS-API Authentication Method for SOCKS Version 5

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1960 - A String Representation of LDAP Search Filters

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1959 - An LDAP URL Format

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1958 - Architectural Principles of the Internet

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1957 - Some Observations on Implementations of the Post Office
             Protocol (POP3)

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1956 - Registration in the MIL Domain

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1955 - New Scheme for Internet Routing and Addressing (ENCAPS) for
             IPNG

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.





Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 27]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      1954 - Transmission of Flow Labelled IPv4 on ATM Data Links
             Ipsilon Version 1.0

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1953 - Ipsilon Flow Management Protocol Specification for IPv4
             Version 1.0

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1952 - GZIP file format specification version 4.3

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1951 - DEFLATE Compressed Data Format Specification version 1.3

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1950 - ZLIB Compressed Data Format Specification version 3.3

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1949 - Scalable Multicast Key Distribution

             An Experimental protocol.

      1948 - Defending Against Sequence Number Attacks

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1947 - Greek Character Encoding for Electronic Mail Messages

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1946 - Native ATM Support for ST2+

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.






Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 28]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      1945 - Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.0

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1944 - Benchmarking Methodology for Network Interconnect Devices

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1943 - Building an X.500 Directory Service in the US

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1942 - HTML Tables

             An Experimental protocol.

      1941 - Frequently Asked Questions for Schools

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1940 - Source Demand Routing: Packet Format and Forwarding
             Specification

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1939 - Post Office Protocol - Version 3

             A Standard protocol.

      1938 - A One-Time Password System

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1937 - "Local/Remote" Forwarding Decision in Switched Data Link
             Subnetworks

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1936 - Implementing the Internet Checksum in Hardware

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 29]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      1935 - What is the Internet, Anyway?

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1934 - Ascend's Multilink Protocol Plus (MP+)

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1933 - Transition Mechanisms for IPv6 Hosts and Routers

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1932 - IP over ATM: A Framework Document

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1931 - Dynamic RARP Extensions for Automatic Network Address
             Acquisition

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1930 - Guidelines for creation, selection, and registration of an
             Autonomous System (AS)

             This is a Best Current Practices document and does not
             specify any level of standard.

      1929 - Username/Password Authentication for SOCKS V5

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1928 - SOCKS Protocol Version 5

             A Proposed Standard protocol.

      1927 - Suggested Additional MIME Types for Associating Documents

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1926 - An Experimental Encapsulation of IP Datagrams on Top of ATM

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 30]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      1925 - The Twelve Networking Truths

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1924 - A Compact Representation of IPv6 Addresses

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1923 - RIPv1 Applicability Statement for Historic Status

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1922 - Chinese Character Encoding for Internet Messages

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1921 - TNVIP Protocol

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1919 - Classical versus Transparent IP Proxies

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1899 - Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1800-1899

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1799 - Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1700-1799

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1699 - Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1600-1699

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1599 - Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1500-1599

             This is an information document and does not specify any



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 31]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


             level of standard.

      1499 - Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1400-1499

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1399 - Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1300-1399

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

      1299 - Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1200-1299

             This is an information document and does not specify any
             level of standard.

6.1.2.  Other Changes:

   The following are changes to protocols listed in the previous
   edition.

      2067 - IP over HIPPI

             Elevated to Draft Standard.

      2049 - Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part Five:
             Conformance Criteria and Examples

             Elevated to Draft Standard.

      2047 - MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) Part Three:
             Message Header Extensions for Non-ASCII Text

             Elevated to Draft Standard.

      2046 - Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part Two:
             Media Types

             Elevated to Draft Standard.

      2045 - Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part One:
             Format of Internet Message Bodies

             Elevated to Draft Standard.






Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 32]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


      1994 - PPP Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP)

             Elevated to Draft Standard.

      1990 - The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP)

             Elevated to Draft Standard.

      1989 - PPP Link Quality Monitoring

             Elevated to Draft Standard.

      1939 - Post Office Protocol - Version 3

             Elevated to Standard.

      1108 - U.S. Department of Defense Security Options for the
             Internet Protocol

             Moved to Historic.































Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 33]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


6.2.  Standard Protocols

Protocol   Name                                      Status    RFC STD *
========   =====================================     ======== ==== === =
--------   Internet Official Protocol Standards      Req      2000   1
--------   Assigned Numbers                          Req      1700   2
--------   Host Requirements - Communications        Req      1122   3
--------   Host Requirements - Applications          Req      1123   3
IP         Internet Protocol                         Req       791   5
            as amended by:--------
--------     IP Subnet Extension                     Req       950   5
--------     IP Broadcast Datagrams                  Req       919   5
--------     IP Broadcast Datagrams with Subnets     Req       922   5
ICMP       Internet Control Message Protocol         Req       792   5
IGMP       Internet Group Multicast Protocol         Rec      1112   5
UDP        User Datagram Protocol                    Rec       768   6
TCP        Transmission Control Protocol             Rec       793   7
TELNET     Telnet Protocol                           Rec   854,855   8
FTP        File Transfer Protocol                    Rec       959   9
SMTP       Simple Mail Transfer Protocol             Rec       821  10
SMTP-SIZE  SMTP Service Ext for Message Size         Rec      1870  10
SMTP-EXT   SMTP Service Extensions                   Rec      1869  10
MAIL       Format of Electronic Mail Messages        Rec       822  11
CONTENT    Content Type Header Field                 Rec      1049  11
NTPV2      Network Time Protocol (Version 2)         Rec      1119  12
DOMAIN     Domain Name System                        Rec 1034,1035  13
DNS-MX     Mail Routing and the Domain System        Rec       974  14
SNMP       Simple Network Management Protocol        Rec      1157  15
SMI        Structure of Management Information       Rec      1155  16
Concise-MIB Concise MIB Definitions                  Rec      1212  16
MIB-II     Management Information Base-II            Rec      1213  17
NETBIOS    NetBIOS Service Protocols                 Ele 1001,1002  19
ECHO       Echo Protocol                             Rec       862  20
DISCARD    Discard Protocol                          Ele       863  21
CHARGEN    Character Generator Protocol              Ele       864  22
QUOTE      Quote of the Day Protocol                 Ele       865  23
USERS      Active Users Protocol                     Ele       866  24
DAYTIME    Daytime Protocol                          Ele       867  25
TIME       Time Server Protocol                      Ele       868  26
TFTP       Trivial File Transfer Protocol            Ele      1350  33
TP-TCP     ISO Transport Service on top of the TCP   Ele      1006  35
ETHER-MIB  Ethernet MIB                              Ele      1643  50
PPP        Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)             Ele      1661  51
PPP-HDLC   PPP in HDLC Framing                       Ele      1662  51
IP-SMDS    IP Datagrams over the SMDS Service        Ele      1209  52
POP3       Post Office Protocol, Version 3           Ele      1939  53 *





Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 34]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


[Note: an asterisk at the end of a line indicates a change from the
previous edition of this document.]

Applicability Statements:

   IGMP -- The Internet Architecture Board intends to move towards
   general adoption of IP multicasting, as a more efficient solution
   than broadcasting for many applications.  The host interface has been
   standardized in RFC-1112; however, multicast-routing gateways are in
   the experimental stage and are not widely available.  An Internet
   host should support all of RFC-1112, except for the IGMP protocol
   itself which is optional; see RFC-1122 for more details.  Even
   without IGMP, implementation of RFC-1112 will provide an important
   advance: IP-layer access to local network multicast addressing.  It
   is expected that IGMP will become recommended for all hosts and
   gateways at some future date.

   SMI, MIB-II SNMP -- The Internet Architecture Board recommends that
   all IP and TCP implementations be network manageable.  At the current
   time, this implies implementation of the Internet MIB-II (RFC-1213),
   and at least the recommended management protocol SNMP (RFC-1157).

   RIP -- The Routing Information Protocol (RIP) is widely implemented
   and used in the Internet.  However, both implementors and users
   should be aware that RIP has some serious technical limitations as a
   routing protocol.  The IETF is currently devpeloping several
   candidates for a new standard "open" routing protocol with better
   properties than RIP.  The IAB urges the Internet community to track
   these developments, and to implement the new protocol when it is
   standardized; improved Internet service will result for many users.

   TP-TCP -- As OSI protocols become more widely implemented and used,
   there will be an increasing need to support interoperation with the
   TCP/IP protocols.  The Internet Engineering Task Force is formulating
   strategies for interoperation.  RFC-1006 provides one interoperation
   mode, in which TCP/IP is used to emulate TP0 in order to support OSI
   applications.  Hosts that wish to run OSI connection-oriented
   applications in this mode should use the procedure described in RFC-
   1006.  In the future, the IAB expects that a major portion of the
   Internet will support both TCP/IP and OSI (inter-)network protocols
   in parallel, and it will then be possible to run OSI applications
   across the Internet using full OSI protocol "stacks".









Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 35]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


6.3.  Network-Specific Standard Protocols

All Network-Specific Standards have Elective status.

Protocol   Name                                    State    RFC   STD *
========   =====================================   =====   =====  === =
IP-ATM     Classical IP and ARP over ATM            Prop   1577
IP-FR      Multiprotocol over Frame Relay           Draft  1490
ATM-ENCAP  Multiprotocol Encapsulation over ATM     Prop   1483
IP-TR-MC   IP Multicast over Token-Ring LANs        Prop   1469
IP-FDDI    Transmission of IP and ARP over FDDI Net Std    1390    36
IP-X.25    X.25 and ISDN in the Packet Mode         Draft  1356
IP-FDDI    Internet Protocol on FDDI Networks       Draft  1188
ARP        Address Resolution Protocol              Std     826    37
RARP       A Reverse Address Resolution Protocol    Std     903    38
IP-ARPA    Internet Protocol on ARPANET             Std BBN1822    39
IP-WB      Internet Protocol on Wideband Network    Std     907    40

IP-E       Internet Protocol on Ethernet Networks   Std     894    41
IP-EE      Internet Protocol on Exp. Ethernet Nets  Std     895    42
IP-IEEE    Internet Protocol on IEEE 802            Std    1042    43
IP-DC      Internet Protocol on DC Networks         Std     891    44
IP-HC      Internet Protocol on Hyperchannel        Std    1044    45
IP-ARC     Transmitting IP Traffic over ARCNET Nets Std    1201    46
IP-SLIP    Transmission of IP over Serial Lines     Std    1055    47
IP-NETBIOS Transmission of IP over NETBIOS          Std    1088    48
IP-IPX     Transmission of 802.2 over IPX Networks  Std    1132    49
IP-HIPPI   IP over HIPPI                            Draft  2067       *

[Note: an asterisk at the end of a line indicates a change from the
previous edition of this document.]

Applicability Statements:

   It is expected that a system will support one or more physical
   networks and for each physical network supported the appropriate
   protocols from the above list must be supported.  That is, it is
   elective to support any particular type of physical network, and for
   the physical networks actually supported it is required that they be
   supported exactly according to the protocols in the above list.  See
   also the Host and Gateway Requirements RFCs for more specific
   information on network-specific ("link layer") protocols.










Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 36]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


6.4.  Draft Standard Protocols

Protocol   Name                                     Status          RFC
========   =====================================    ============== =====
MIME-CONF  MIME Conformance Criteria                Elective       2049*
MIME-MSG   MIME Msg Header Ext for Non-ASCII        Elective       2047*
MIME-MEDIA MIME Media Types                         Elective       2046*
MIME       Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions    Elective       2045*
PPP-CHAP   PPP Challenge Handshake Authentication   Elective       1994*
PPP-MP     PPP Multilink Protocol                   Elective       1990*
PPP-LINK   PPP Link Quality Monitoring              Elective       1989*
COEX-MIB   Coexistence between SNMPV1 & SNMPV2      Elective       1908
SNMPv2-MIB MIB for SNMPv2                           Elective       1907
TRANS-MIB  Transport Mappings for SNMPv2            Elective       1906
OPS-MIB    Protocol Operations for SNMPv2           Elective       1905
CONF-MIB   Conformance Statements for SNMPv2        Elective       1904
CONV-MIB   Textual Conventions for SNMPv2           Elective       1903
SMIV2      SMI for SNMPv2                           Elective       1902
CON-MD5    Content-MD5 Header Field                 Elective       1864
OSPF-MIB   OSPF Version 2 MIB                       Elective       1850
STR-REP    String Representation ...                Elective       1779
X.500syn   X.500 String Representation ...          Elective       1778
X.500lite  X.500 Lightweight ...                    Elective       1777
BGP-4-APP  Application of BGP-4                     Elective       1772
BGP-4      Border Gateway Protocol 4                Elective       1771
PPP-DNCP   PPP DECnet Phase IV Control Protocol     Elective       1762
RMON-MIB   Remote Network Monitoring MIB            Elective       1757
802.5-MIB  IEEE 802.5 Token Ring MIB                Elective       1748
BGP-4-MIB  BGP-4 MIB                                Elective       1657
RIP2-MIB   RIP Version 2 MIB Extension              Elective       1724
RIP2       RIP Version 2-Carrying Additional Info.  Elective       1723
RIP2-APP   RIP Version 2 Protocol App. Statement    Elective       1722
SIP-MIB    SIP Interface Type MIB                   Elective       1694
-------    Def Man Objs Parallel-printer-like       Elective       1660
-------    Def Man Objs RS-232-like                 Elective       1659
-------    Def Man Objs Character Stream            Elective       1658
SMTP-8BIT  SMTP Service Ext or 8bit-MIMEtransport   Elective       1652
OSI-NSAP   Guidelines for OSI NSAP Allocation       Elective       1629
OSPF2      Open Shortest Path First Routing V2      Elective       1583
ISO-TS-ECHO Echo for ISO-8473                       Elective       1575
DECNET-MIB DECNET MIB                               Elective       1559
802.3-MIB  IEEE 802.3 Repeater MIB                  Elective       1516
BRIDGE-MIB BRIDGE-MIB                               Elective       1493
NTPV3      Network Time Protocol (Version 3)        Elective       1305
IP-MTU     Path MTU Discovery                       Elective       1191
FINGER     Finger Protocol                          Elective       1288
BOOTP      Bootstrap Protocol                      Recommended 951,1533
NICNAME    WhoIs Protocol                           Elective        954



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 37]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


[Note: an asterisk at the end of a line indicates a change from the
previous edition of this document.]

Applicability Statements:

   PPP -- Point to Point Protocol is a method of sending IP over serial
   lines, which are a type of physical network.  It is anticipated that
   PPP will be advanced to the network-specifics standard protocol state
   in the future.

6.5.  Proposed Standard Protocols

Protocol   Name                                     Status          RFC
========   =====================================    ============== =====
HTTP-STATE HTTP State Management Mechanism          Elective       2109*
802.3-MIB  802.3 Repeater MIB using SMIv2           Elective       2108*
PPP-NBFCP  PPP NetBIOS Frames Control Protocol      Elective       2097*
TABLE-MIB  IP Forwarding Table MIB                  Elective       2096*
IMAPPOPAU  IMAP/POP AUTHorize Extension             Elective       2095*
RIP-TRIG   Trigger RIP                              Elective       2091*
IMAP4-LIT  IMAP4 non-synchronizing literals         Elective       2088*
IMAP4-QUO  IMAP4 QUOTA extension                    Elective       2087*
IMAP4-ACL  IMAP4 ACL Extension                      Elective       2086*
HMAC-MD5   HMAC-MD5 IP Auth. with Replay Prevention Elective       2085*
RIP2-MD5   RIP-2 MD5 Authentication                 Elective       2082*
RIPNG-IPV6 RIPng for IPv6                           Elective       2080*
URI-ATT    URI Attribute Type and Object Class      Elective       2079*
GSSAP      Generic Security Service Application     Elective       2078*
MIME-MODEL Model Primary MIME Types                 Elective       2077*
RMON-MIB   Remote Network Monitoring MIB            Elective       2074*
IPV6-UNI   IPv6 Provider-Based Unicast Address      Elective       2073*
HTML-INT   HTML Internationalization                Elective       2070*
DAA        Digest Access Authentication             Elective       2069*
HTTP-1.1   Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1  Elective       2068*
DNS-SEC    Domain Name System Security Extensions   Elective       2065*
IMAPV4     Internet Message Access Protocol v4rev1  Elective       2060*
RADIUS     Remote Authentication Dial In User Serv  Elective       2058*
URLZ39.50  Uniform Resource Locators for Z39.50     Elective       2056*
SNANAU-APP SNANAU APPC MIB using SMIv2              Elective       2051*
PPP-SNACP  PPP SNA Control Protocol                 Elective       2043*
RTP-MPEG   RTP Payload Format for MPEG1/MPEG2       Elective       2038*
ENTITY-MIB Entity MIB using SMIv2                   Elective       2037*
RTP-JPEG   RTP Payload Format for JPEG-compressed   Elective       2035*
SMTP-ENH   SMTP Enhanced Error Codes                Elective       2034*
RTP-H.261  RTP Payload Format for H.261             Elective       2032*
RTP-CELLB  RTP Payload Format of Sun's CellB        Elective       2029*
SPKM       Simple Public-Key GSS-API Mechanism      Elective       2025*
DLSW-MIB   DLSw MIB using SMIv2                     Elective       2024*



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 38]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


IPV6-PPP   IP Version 6 over PPP                    Elective       2023*
MULTI-UNI  Multicast over UNI 3.0/3.1 based ATM     Elective       2022*
RMON-MIB   RMON MIB using SMIv2                     Elective       2021*
802.12-MIB IEEE 802.12 Interface MIB                Elective       2020*
IPV6-FDDI  Transmission of IPv6 Packets Over FDDI   Elective       2019*
TCP-ACK    TCP Selective Acknowledgement Options    Elective       2018*
URL-ACC    URL Access-Type                          Elective       2017*
MIME-PGP   MIME Security with PGP                   Elective       2015*
MIB-UDP    SNMPv2 MIB for UDP                       Elective       2013*
MIB-TCP    SNMPv2 MIB for TCP                       Elective       2012*
MIB-IP     SNMPv2 MIB for IP                        Elective       2011*
MOBILEIPMIBMobile IP MIB Definition using SMIv2     Elective       2006*
MOBILEIPAPPApplicability Statement for IP Mobility  Elective       2005*
MINI-IP    Minimal Encapsulation within IP          Elective       2004*
IPENCAPIP  IP Encapsulation within IP               Elective       2003*
MOBILEIPSUPIP Mobility Support                      Elective       2002*
TCPSLOWSRT TCP Slow Start, Congestion Avoidance...  Elective       2001*
BGP-COMM   BGP Communities Attribute                Elective       1997*
DNS-NOTIFY Mech. for Notification of Zone Changes   Elective       1996*
DNS-IZT    Incremental Zone Transfer in DNS         Elective       1995*
SMTP-ETRN  SMTP Service Extension ETRN              Elective       1985*
SNA        Serial Number Arithmetic                 Elective       1982*
MTU-IPV6   Path MTU Discovery for IP version 6      Elective       1981*
PPP-FRAME  PPP in Frame Relay                       Elective       1973*
IPV6-ETHER Transmission IPv6 Packets Over Ethernet  Elective       1972*
IPV6-AUTO  IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguation  Elective       1971*
IPV6-ND    Neighbor Discovery for IP Version 6      Elective       1970*
PPP-ECP    PPP Encryption Control Protocol          Elective       1968*
GSSAPI-KER Kerberos Version 5 GSS-API Mechanism     Elective       1964*
PPP-CCP    PPP Compression Control Protocol         Elective       1962*
GSSAPI-SOC GSS-API Auth for SOCKS Version 5         Elective       1961*
LDAP-STR   String Rep. of LDAP Search Filters       Elective       1960*
LDAP-URL   LDAP URL Format                          Elective       1959*
ONE-PASS   One-Time Password System                 Elective       1938*
TRANS-IPV6 Transition Mechanisms IPv6 Hosts/Routers Elective       1933*
AUTH-SOCKS Username Authentication for SOCKS V5     Elective       1929*
SOCKSV5    SOCKS Protocol Version 5                 Elective       1928*
WHOIS++M   How to Interact with a Whois++ Mesh      Elective       1914
WHOIS++A   Architecture of Whois++ Index Service    Elective       1913
DSN        Delivery Status Notifications            Elective       1894
EMS-CODE   Enhanced Mail System Status Codes        Elective       1893
MIME-RPT   Multipart/Report                         Elective       1892
SMTP-DSN   SMTP Delivery Status Notifications       Elective       1891
RTP-AV     RTP Audio/Video Profile                  Elective       1890
RTP        Transport Protocol for Real-Time Apps    Elective       1889
DNS-IPV6   DNS Extensions to support IPv6           Elective       1886
ICMPv6     ICMPv6 for IPv6                          Elective       1885
IPV6-Addr  IPv6 Addressing Architecture             Elective       1884



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 39]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


IPV6       IPv6 Specification                       Elective       1883
HTML       Hypertext Markup Language - 2.0          Elective       1866
SMTP-Pipe  SMTP Serv. Ext. for Command Pipelining   Elective       1854
MIME-Sec   MIME Object Security Services            Elective       1848
MIME-Encyp MIME: Signed and Encrypted               Elective       1847
WHOIS++    Architecture of the WHOIS++ service      Elective       1835
--------   Binding Protocols for ONC RPC Version 2  Elective       1833
XDR        External Data Representation Standard    Elective       1832
RPC        Remote Procedure Call Protocol V. 2      Elective       1831
--------   ESP DES-CBC Transform                    Ele/Req        1829
--------   IP Authentication using Keyed MD5        Ele/Req        1828
ESP        IP Encapsulating Security Payload        Ele/Req        1827
IPV6-AH    IP Authentication Header                 Ele/Req        1826
--------   Security Architecture for IP             Ele/Req        1825
RREQ       Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers    Elective       1812
URL        Relative Uniform Resource Locators       Elective       1808
CLDAP      Connection-less LDAP                     Elective       1798
OSPF-DC    Ext. OSPF to Support Demand Circuits     Elective       1793
TMUX       Transport Multiplexing Protocol          Elective       1692
TFTP-Opt   TFTP Options                             Elective       1784
TFTP-Blk   TFTP Blocksize Option                    Elective       1783
TFTP-Ext   TFTP Option Extension                    Elective       1782
OSI-Dir    OSI User Friendly Naming ...             Elective       1781
MIME-EDI   MIME Encapsulation of EDI Objects        Elective       1767
Lang-Tag   Tags for Identification of Languages     Elective       1766
XNSCP      PPP XNS IDP Control Protocol             Elective       1764
BVCP       PPP Banyan Vines Control Protocol        Elective       1763
Print-MIB  Printer MIB                              Elective       1759
ATM-SIG    ATM Signaling Support for IP over ATM    Elective       1755
IPNG       Recommendation for IP Next Generation    Elective       1752
802.5-SSR  802.5 SSR MIB using SMIv2                Elective       1749
SDLCSMIv2  SNADLC SDLC MIB using SMIv2              Elective       1747
BGP4/IDRP  BGP4/IDRP for IP/OSPF Interaction        Elective       1745
AT-MIB     Appletalk MIB                            Elective       1742
MacMIME    MIME Encapsulation of Macintosh files    Elective       1740
URL        Uniform Resource Locators                Elective       1738
POP3-AUTH  POP3 AUTHentication command              Elective       1734
IMAP4-AUTH IMAP4 Authentication Mechanisms          Elective       1731
IMAP4      Internet Message Access Protocol V4      Elective       1730
RDBMS-MIB  RDMS MIB - using SMIv2                   Elective       1697
MODEM-MIB  Modem MIB - using SMIv2                  Elective       1696
ATM-MIB    ATM Management Version 8.0 using SMIv2   Elective       1695
SNANAU-MIB SNA NAUs MIB using SMIv2                 Elective       1665
PPP-TRANS  PPP Reliable Transmission                Elective       1663
BGP-4-IMP  BGP-4 Roadmap and Implementation         Elective       1656
--------   Postmaster Convention X.400 Operations   Elective       1648
TN3270-En  TN3270 Enhancements                      Elective       1647
PPP-BCP    PPP Bridging Control Protocol            Elective       1638



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 40]
 
RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997


UPS-MIB    UPS Management Information Base          Elective       1628
AAL5-MTU   Default IP MTU for use over ATM AAL5     Elective       1626
PPP-SONET  PPP over SONET/SDH                       Elective       1619
PPP-ISDN   PPP over ISDN                            Elective       1618
DNS-R-MIB  DNS Resolver MIB Extensions              Elective       1612
DNS-S-MIB  DNS Server MIB Extensions                Elective       1611
FR-MIB     Frame Relay Service MIB                  Elective       1604
PPP-X25    PPP in X.25                              Elective       1598
OSPF-NSSA  The OSPF NSSA Option                     Elective       1587
OSPF-Multi Multicast Extensions to OSPF             Elective       1584
SONET-MIB  MIB SONET/SDH Interface Type             Elective       1595
RIP-DC     Extensions to RIP to Support Demand Cir. Elective       1582
--------   Evolution of the Interfaces Group of MIB-II Elective    1573
PPP-LCP    PPP LCP Extensions                       Elective       1570
X500-MIB   X.500 Directory Monitoring MIB           Elective       1567
MAIL-MIB   Mail Monitoring MIB                      Elective       1566
NSM-MIB    Network Services Monitoring MIB          Elective       1565
CIPX       Compressing IPX Headers Over WAM Media   Elective       1553
IPXCP      PPP Internetworking Packet Exchange Control Elective    1552
DHCP-BOOTP Interoperation Between DHCP and BOOTP    Elective       1534
DHCP-BOOTP DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions Elective       1533
BOOTP      Clarifications and Extensions BOOTP      Elective       1542
DHCP       Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol      Elective       1541
SRB-MIB    Source Routing Bridge MIB                Elective       1525
CIDR-STRA  CIDR Address Assignment...               Elective       1519
CIDR-ARCH  CIDR Architecture...                     Elective       1518
CIDR-APP   CIDR Applicability Statement             Elective       1517
--------   802.3 MAU MIB                            Elective       1515
HOST-MIB   Host Resources MIB                       Elective       1514
--------   Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB        Elective       1513
FDDI-MIB   FDDI Management Information Base         Elective       1512
KERBEROS   Kerberos Network Authentication Ser (V5) Elective       1510
GSSAPI     Generic Security Service API: C-bindings Elective       1509
GSSAPI     Generic Security Service Application...  Elective       1508
DASS       Distributed Authentication Security...   Elective       1507
--------   X.400 Use of Extended Character Sets     Elective       1502
HARPOON    Rules for Downgrading Messages...        Elective       1496
Mapping    MHS/RFC-822 Message Body Mapping         Elective       1495
Equiv      X.400/MIME Body Equivalences             Elective       1494
IDPR       Inter-Domain Policy Routing Protocol     Elective       1479
IDPR-ARCH  Architecture for IDPR                    Elective       1478
PPP/Bridge MIB Bridge PPP MIB                       Elective       1474
PPP/IP MIB  IP Network Control Protocol of PPP MIB  Elective       1473
PPP/SEC MIB Security Protocols of PPP MIB           Elective       1472
PPP/LCP MIB Link Control Protocol of PPP MIB        Elective       1471
X25-MIB    Multiprotocol Interconnect on X.25 MIB   Elective       1461
SNMPv2     Coexistence between SNMPv1 and SNMPv2    Elective       1452
SNMPv2     Management Information Base for SNMPv2   Elective       1450



Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 41]
 